README.md, before:

ca-tools
===========

Certificate authority tools and public bits.

## Usage

### As an end-user

For all the below processes, start by downloading the cert:

```
curl https://github.com/akerl/ca-tools/raw/master/certs/ca.crt
```

#### Mac

1. Open the certificate in Keychain Access:
    * `open ca.crt`
2. Hit "Always Trust"
3. Enter your OSX creds when prompted

#### Thunderbird

1. Open Preferences from the "Thunderbird" menu
2. Navigate to "Advanced", then "Certificates", and click "View Certificates"
3. Click "Import" and select the ca.crt file you downloaded

### As the certificate manager

#### Create a CA (once)

1. Pick a secure system for the CA to live on
2. If that system is a server, you probably want haveged installed for entropy
3. Clone this repo there
4. Run `makeca.sh`
    * You'll need to provide a passphrase. Put that passphrase in [1Password](https://agilebits.com/onepassword) (you do use 1Password, don't you)

#### Generate a new signed child certificate

Do the following on the system the new certificate is for:

1. If it's a server, install haveged for entropy
2. Clone this repo to the system
3. If you need subject alt names, export the variable now:
    * `export SAN="DNS:othersite.com, DNS:example.com"`
4. Run `gencsr.sh $NAME`, where $NAME is a short name for the certificate

Do the following on the CA system:

1. Run `sign.sh $NAME` using the same name you used previously

Do the following on the system the new certificate is for:

1. Pull the repo changes: `git pull`
2. Your certificate is now located at ./certs/$NAME.crt and the key is in ./keys/$NAME.key

Commit message:

add edit step, thanks @Stantheman

README.md, after:

ca-tools
===========

Certificate authority tools and public bits.

## Usage

### As an end-user

For all the below processes, start by downloading the cert:

```
curl https://github.com/akerl/ca-tools/raw/master/certs/ca.crt
```

#### Mac

1. Open the certificate in Keychain Access:
    * `open ca.crt`
2. Hit "Always Trust"
3. Enter your OSX creds when prompted

#### Thunderbird

1. Open Preferences from the "Thunderbird" menu
2. Navigate to "Advanced", then "Certificates", and click "View Certificates"
3. Click "Import" and select the ca.crt file you downloaded

### As the certificate manager

#### Create a CA (once)

1. Edit openssl.conf to have the right SAN and distinguished_name settings
2. Pick a secure system for the CA to live on
3. If that system is a server, you probably want haveged installed for entropy
4. Clone this repo there
5. Run `makeca.sh`
    * You'll need to provide a passphrase. Put that passphrase in [1Password](https://agilebits.com/onepassword) (you do use 1Password, don't you)

#### Generate a new signed child certificate

Do the following on the system the new certificate is for:

1. If it's a server, install haveged for entropy
2. Clone this repo to the system
3. If you need subject alt names, export the variable now:
    * `export SAN="DNS:othersite.com, DNS:example.com"`
4. Run `gencsr.sh $NAME`, where $NAME is a short name for the certificate

Do the following on the CA system:

1. Run `sign.sh $NAME` using the same name you used previously

Do the following on the system the new certificate is for:

1. Pull the repo changes: `git pull`
2. Your certificate is now located at ./certs/$NAME.crt and the key is in ./keys/$NAME.key
